# Trimmed_Means
Exercise performed using the trim package (github.com/chrisbcaldwell/trim)

## Project Overview
A comparison of trimmed means methods in Go and R was conducted using the `trim` Go packace I developed.

## Running the Project

To run the Go portion, download the files `random.csv` and `trimmed_means.exe` to the same folder and simply run the `trimmed_means.exe` file from the command line.  I did this in the terminal within VSCode.

To run the R version, run the script `trimmed_means.R` by your preferred method; I used the terminal within VSCode.

## Project Data

A file `random.csv` was created using Excel.  5,000 random outputs were generated.

For the field `integers` random integers were generated for a Poisson distribution of 5,000 observations with a mean of 3,000.  A constant was subtracted to get a result of about 10% of the data less than zero.

The field `floats` was generated by adding a random normal variable to the integer values with mean zero and standard deviation 3.

## Go version

Output follows:

```
Integer data trimmed mean: 69.60
Float data trimmed mean: 69.58
Total run time: 4.144ms
```

## R version

Output follows:

```
[1] "Integer trimmed mean:"
[1] 69.60067
[1] "Float trimmed mean:"
[1] 69.57587
[1] "Total run time:"
Time difference of 0.01240683 secs
```

## Results Discussion

Outputs matched between Go and R, so that's a reassuring validation of my `trim` package.

The run time was about 3X faster in Go; a greater advantage is possible in a situation of many simultaneous trimmed means using Go's concurrency.
